docs/UI_MAP.md, before:

# Frigate Event Viewer — UI Map

**This file is the source of truth for Compose UI and navigation.** See `map.md` for project structure and data flow.

---

## Rules for AI

Whenever a new screen or navigation route is added to the app, the AI agent **MUST** update this document and its Mermaid flowcharts to reflect the new architecture before marking the task as complete.

---

## Design System & UI Guidelines

Apply these rules across all screens to keep the app visually consistent.

- **Screen headers:** The three main tab screens (Dashboard, Events, Daily Review) use a large top-app-bar style title at the top of their main content: `MaterialTheme.typography.headlineLarge`, with **16.dp** horizontal and top padding and **8.dp** bottom spacing before the body content. Main screen headers include a **settings navigation icon on the right** that navigates to the settings route; when on the **Dashboard** tab, a **Snooze** icon (NotificationsOff) is also shown and navigates to the snooze route. Back from Settings or Snooze returns to the main tabs.
- **Nested screens (Settings, Event detail):** Use a **TopAppBar** with title and **navigationIcon** = `IconButton` + `Icons.AutoMirrored.Filled.ArrowBack` for consistent back styling. These screens also use **full-width swipe-back** via **SwipeBackBox** (see `ui/util/SwipeBack.kt`): a rightward swipe from anywhere on the screen triggers back (same feel as swiping between tabs). Vertical scroll is preserved: the gesture is only consumed when horizontal movement exceeds the threshold and dominates vertical movement.
- **Container margins:** Main screen containers use uniform **16.dp** horizontal padding so content aligns cleanly to the screen edges. Avoid double-padding inner children (e.g. do not add extra horizontal padding inside a Column that already sits in a padded container).
- **Shapes:** Major UI elements (video players, cards, action buttons) use **12.dp** rounded corners: `RoundedCornerShape(12.dp)`. Do not use the default Compose pill shape for primary action buttons; use the 12.dp shape to match video and cards.
- **Action buttons:** Rows of action buttons must stay **single-line** at **40.dp** height. Use `Modifier.height(40.dp)` and `Text(..., maxLines = 1)`. When button labels vary in length, use `Modifier.weight(...)` so the middle/longer label has more space (e.g. `weight(1.4f)` for "Mark Reviewed") and side buttons use `weight(1f)` to avoid wrapping.
- **Video players:** Use a **16:9** aspect-ratio container (`Modifier.aspectRatio(16f / 9f)`), **RESIZE_MODE_ZOOM** so the frame is filled, and a **1-second (1000ms)** controller timeout (`controllerShowTimeoutMs = 1000`).
- **Push notifications:** Security-alert notification content follows the same title/body hierarchy as in-app UI: concise title (e.g. "Motion Detected", "Snapshot ready", or AI title) and body text. The notification shade uses `NotificationCompat` setContentTitle/setContentText (and BigPictureStyle where applicable); no Compose typography in the shade. See `FrigateFirebaseMessagingService` and `map.md` §5 (FCM phase-aware notifications).

---

## 1. Navigation flowchart

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    appLaunch["App launch"]
    navHost["NavHost startDestination=settings"]
    hasBaseUrl{"DataStore has base URL?"}
    settingsScreen["SettingsScreen"]
    mainTabs["MainTabsScreen (pager)"]
    dashboard["DashboardScreen"]
    events["EventsScreen"]
    dailyReview["DailyReviewScreen"]
    eventDetail["EventDetailScreen"]
    bottomBar["Bottom bar visible"]

    appLaunch --> navHost
    navHost --> settingsScreen
    settingsScreen --> hasBaseUrl
    hasBaseUrl -->|Yes| mainTabs
    hasBaseUrl -->|No| settingsScreen
    settingsScreen -->|Save base URL| mainTabs
    mainTabs --> bottomBar
    bottomBar -->|Dashboard tab or swipe| dashboard
    bottomBar -->|Events tab or swipe| events
    bottomBar -->|Daily Review tab or swipe| dailyReview
    events -->|Tap event| eventDetail
    eventDetail -->|Back| events
    deeplink["buffer://event_detail/ce_id"] --> mainTabs
    deeplink -->|Resolve to event| eventDetail
    deeplink -->|Not found| eventNotFound["EventNotFoundScreen"]
    eventNotFound -->|Refresh| eventDetail
    eventNotFound -->|Back| mainTabs
    dashboard -->|Snooze icon| snooze["SnoozeScreen"]
    snooze -->|Back| mainTabs
```

**Flow summary:**

- **App launch:** NavHost starts at route `"settings"`.
- **Launch decision:** A `LaunchedEffect(Unit)` in MainActivity calls `SettingsPreferences.getBaseUrlOnce()`. If non-null, navigates to `"main_tabs"` (MainTabsScreen) and pops `"settings"` so back does not return to first-run.
- **First run:** User stays on SettingsScreen until they enter a URL and tap Save (or launch decision already sent them to the tabbed main screen).
- **After Save:** `onNavigateToDashboard` runs → navigate to `"main_tabs"`, pop `"settings"` inclusive.
- **Bottom bar + pager:** MainTabsScreen owns a `Scaffold` with a bottom bar and a `HorizontalPager` with three pages: Dashboard, Events, and Daily Review. Tapping Dashboard, Events, or Daily Review animates the pager to the corresponding page; swiping between pages also updates the selected bottom bar item.
- **Event detail:** From EventsScreen (inside the pager), tapping an event card sets `SharedEventViewModel.selectedEvent` and navigates to `"event_detail"`. EventDetailScreen shows video, actions (Mark Reviewed, Keep, Delete), and metadata. Back (toolbar or system) clears selection and pops to the previous screen.
- **Deep link:** The app can be opened via `buffer://event_detail/{ce_id}`. MainActivity parses the URI, fetches events (GET /events?filter=all), finds the event by `event_id` or (camera `"events"` and `subdir`), sets the selected event and navigates to `"event_detail"`. If the event is not found, the app navigates to `event_not_found/{ce_id}` which shows "Event not found" and a **Refresh** button that retries the same resolution.
- **Snooze:** From the Dashboard tab, the header shows a Snooze icon that navigates to `"snooze"`. SnoozeScreen lets the user set per-camera snooze with duration presets (30m, 1h, 2h), Notification Snooze and AI Snooze toggles, and a camera list with Snooze/Clear actions. Back returns to main tabs.

---

## 2. Screen inventory

### SettingsScreen

- **Route:** `"settings"`
- **Purpose:** First-run / onboarding; also reachable from main tabs via the header settings icon. User enters the Frigate Event Buffer server base URL, can test connection (GET `/status`), and saves. After save (when coming from first-run), app navigates to dashboard and removes settings from back stack. When opened from main tabs, a TopAppBar with back icon is shown and back (or full-width swipe) returns to main tabs.
- **ViewModel:** `SettingsViewModel` (factory: `SettingsViewModelFactory`).
- **States:**
  - `urlInput: StateFlow<String>` — current text in the URL field.
  - `connectionTestState: StateFlow<ConnectionTestState>` — `Idle` | `Loading` | `Success` | `Error(message)`.
- **Data source:** `FrigateApiService.getStatus()` for "Test connection". DataStore for `saveBaseUrl` / `getBaseUrlOnce`.

---

### DashboardScreen

- **Route:** Hosted as page 0 inside `"main_tabs"` (MainTabsScreen pager)
- **Purpose:** Shows event stats (today, this week, this month, unreviewed) and storage usage. Pull-to-refresh and retry on error. Data refreshes when the tab is selected and when the app is opened or brought from background.
- **ViewModel:** `DashboardViewModel` (factory: `DashboardViewModelFactory`).
- **States:** `DashboardState` — `Loading(previous?)` | `Success(stats)` | `Error(message, previous?)`.
- **Data source:** `FrigateApiService.getStats()`.
- **Refresh triggers:** init, pull-to-refresh, tab selected (current page), app resume (lifecycle `RESUMED` when this tab is visible). **Header:** When this tab is visible, the main-tabs top bar shows a Snooze icon that navigates to the snooze route.

---

### EventsScreen

- **Route:** Hosted as page 1 inside `"main_tabs"` (MainTabsScreen pager)
- **Purpose:** Lists unreviewed events with thumbnails (snapshot or clip), camera name, timestamp, label, and threat level. Pull-to-refresh, retry on error. List refreshes when the user returns from event detail after Mark Reviewed / Keep / Delete, when the tab is selected, and when the app is opened or brought from background.
- **ViewModel:** `EventsViewModel` (factory: `EventsViewModelFactory`; requires `SharedEventViewModel` to observe `eventsRefreshRequested`).
- **States:** `EventsState` — `Loading` | `Success(response)` | `Error(message)`. Also exposes `baseUrl: StateFlow<String?>` for building media URLs.
- **Data source:** `FrigateApiService.getEvents(filter = "unreviewed")`.
- **Refresh triggers:** init, pull-to-refresh, `SharedEventViewModel.eventsRefreshRequested` (after event-detail actions), tab selected, app resume.

---

### DailyReviewScreen

- **Route:** Hosted as page 2 inside `"main_tabs"` (MainTabsScreen pager)
- **Purpose:** View the current daily review report (Markdown) and trigger report generation. Pull-to-refresh to refetch without regenerating. Renders markdown via mikepenz M3; FAB "Generate New Report" calls generate endpoint then refetches. On 404 (no report for today) shows a friendly message and Retry. Data refreshes when the tab is selected and when the app is opened or brought from background.
- **ViewModel:** `DailyReviewViewModel` (factory: `DailyReviewViewModelFactory`). Receives viewModel from MainTabsScreen (same instance for the pager).
- **States:** `DailyReviewState` — `Idle` | `Loading` | `Success(markdownText)` | `Error(message)`.
- **Data source:** `FrigateApiService.getCurrentDailyReview()`, `FrigateApiService.generateDailyReview()`.
- **Refresh triggers:** init, pull-to-refresh (`refresh()`), after Generate New Report, tab selected, app resume.

---

### EventDetailScreen

- **Route:** `"event_detail"`
- **Purpose:** Plays the event's .mp4 clip (Media3 ExoPlayer), shows actions (Mark Reviewed, Keep, Delete), and metadata (title, scene, camera, date, threat level). User can mark viewed, keep (move to saved), or delete; on Keep or Delete success the screen pops back (path changes / item removed). On any of the three actions, `onEventActionCompleted` is invoked so the events list refreshes (via `SharedEventViewModel.requestEventsRefresh()`). Selection comes from `SharedEventViewModel`; cleared on back.
- **ViewModel:** `EventDetailViewModel` (factory: `EventDetailViewModelFactory`). Also reads `SharedEventViewModel.selectedEvent` (from MainActivity).
- **States:** `EventDetailOperationState` — `Idle` | `Loading` | `Success(action)` | `Error(message)`. `baseUrl: StateFlow<String?>` for building clip URL.
- **Data source:** `FrigateApiService.markViewed`, `keepEvent`, `deleteEvent`. Clip URL via `buildMediaUrl(baseUrl, hosted_clip)` or first `hosted_clips[].url`.

---

### EventNotFoundScreen

- **Route:** `"event_not_found/{ce_id}"` (path argument: `ce_id`).
- **Purpose:** Shown when a deep link `buffer://event_detail/{ce_id}` could not resolve to an event (e.g. event not in list or not yet synced). Displays "Event not found" and the ce_id, with a **Refresh** button that retries resolution (fetch events, find by ce_id; if found, navigate to event_detail) and a **Back to app** button that clears the pending deep link and pops back to main tabs.
- **ViewModel:** None; receives `ceId` from route, `onRefresh` and `onBack` from MainActivity.
- **Data source:** None; actions trigger MainActivity/DeepLinkViewModel retry or back.

---

### SnoozeScreen

- **Route:** `"snooze"`
- **Purpose:** Per-camera snooze to mute notifications or AI processing until an expiration time. User selects duration preset (30m, 1h, 2h) with haptic feedback on selection, toggles "Notification Snooze" and "AI Snooze" (with sub-label "Mutes AI analysis but keeps basic motion alerts" for AI). Camera list shows each camera with Snooze or Clear button; active snoozes show expiration. Data loaded from GET /cameras and GET /api/snooze; set via POST /api/snooze/<camera>; clear via DELETE /api/snooze/<camera>. Reached from the Dashboard header Snooze icon.
- **ViewModel:** `SnoozeViewModel` (factory: `SnoozeViewModelFactory`).
- **States:** `SnoozeState` — `Loading` | `Ready(cameras, activeSnoozes)` | `Error(message)`. Also `selectedPresetIndex`, `snoozeNotifications`, `snoozeAi`, `selectedCamera`, `operationInProgress`.
- **Data source:** `FrigateApiService.getCameras()`, `getSnoozeList()`, `setSnooze(camera, body)`, `clearSnooze(camera)`.

---

## 3. UI components and helpers

### SwipeBackBox

- **Location:** `com.example.frigateeventviewer.ui.util.SwipeBack.kt`
- **Purpose:** Full-width swipe-right-to-go-back on nested screens (Settings, Event detail). A rightward swipe from anywhere triggers back, like swiping between tabs. Only consumes the gesture when horizontal movement exceeds the threshold and dominates vertical movement, so vertical scroll continues to work.
- **Used by:** SettingsScreen, EventDetailScreen, SnoozeScreen.

### buildMediaUrl(baseUrl, path)

- **Location:** `com.example.frigateeventviewer.ui.util.MediaUrl.kt`
- **Purpose:** Builds the full media URL from the server base URL and an API path (e.g. `hosted_snapshot`, `hosted_clip`). Trims trailing slash from base URL to avoid double slashes. Returns `null` if either argument is null/blank.
- **Used by:** EventsScreen `EventCard` for thumbnail/clip URLs; EventDetailScreen for clip playback URL.

### EventDetailScreen — video and actions

- **Video:** AndroidView wrapping Media3 `PlayerView` and `ExoPlayer`. Clip URL from `buildMediaUrl(baseUrl, event.hosted_clip)` or first `event.hosted_clips[].url`. Player is paused on lifecycle `ON_PAUSE` (so audio does not continue in background) and released in AndroidView `onRelease`.
- **Actions:** Row of three buttons — Mark Reviewed (primary), Keep (tertiary; disabled if `event.saved`), Delete (error). Success(Delete) or Success(Keep) calls `onEventActionCompleted()` then pops back; Success(Mark Reviewed) calls `onEventActionCompleted()` (so the events list refreshes in the background), shows Snackbar, and stays.

### Coil and video thumbnails

- **Application:** `FrigateEventViewerApplication` implements Coil `ImageLoaderFactory` and registers `VideoFrameDecoder.Factory()` so video URLs (e.g. .mp4 clip paths) can be used as image sources (first frame decoded).
- **Usage:** Use the default Coil `ImageLoader` (do not create ad-hoc loaders). For video URLs, build an `ImageRequest` with `videoFrameMillis(2000L)` (or desired offset) so Coil uses the decoder to show a frame. Example: EventsScreen `EventCard` uses `AsyncImage` with `ImageRequest.Builder(context).data(url).videoFrameMillis(2000L).build()`.
- There is no separate "StreamingVideoFetcher" component; the app uses Coil’s `VideoFrameDecoder` as above.

Commit message:

notification bug fixes p1
notifications working, spammy, not consistent with images, etc.

first release

docs/UI_MAP.md, after:

# Frigate Event Viewer — UI Map

**This file is the source of truth for Compose UI and navigation.** See `map.md` for project structure and data flow.

---

## Rules for AI

Whenever a new screen or navigation route is added to the app, the AI agent **MUST** update this document and its Mermaid flowcharts to reflect the new architecture before marking the task as complete.

---

## Design System & UI Guidelines

Apply these rules across all screens to keep the app visually consistent.

- **Screen headers:** The three main tab screens (Dashboard, Events, Daily Review) use a large top-app-bar style title at the top of their main content: `MaterialTheme.typography.headlineLarge`, with **16.dp** horizontal and top padding and **8.dp** bottom spacing before the body content. Main screen headers include a **settings navigation icon on the right** that navigates to the settings route; when on the **Dashboard** tab, a **Snooze** icon (NotificationsOff) is also shown and navigates to the snooze route. Back from Settings or Snooze returns to the main tabs.
- **Nested screens (Settings, Event detail):** Use a **TopAppBar** with title and **navigationIcon** = `IconButton` + `Icons.AutoMirrored.Filled.ArrowBack` for consistent back styling. These screens also use **full-width swipe-back** via **SwipeBackBox** (see `ui/util/SwipeBack.kt`): a rightward swipe from anywhere on the screen triggers back (same feel as swiping between tabs). Vertical scroll is preserved: the gesture is only consumed when horizontal movement exceeds the threshold and dominates vertical movement.
- **Container margins:** Main screen containers use uniform **16.dp** horizontal padding so content aligns cleanly to the screen edges. Avoid double-padding inner children (e.g. do not add extra horizontal padding inside a Column that already sits in a padded container).
- **Shapes:** Major UI elements (video players, cards, action buttons) use **12.dp** rounded corners: `RoundedCornerShape(12.dp)`. Do not use the default Compose pill shape for primary action buttons; use the 12.dp shape to match video and cards.
- **Action buttons:** Rows of action buttons must stay **single-line** at **40.dp** height. Use `Modifier.height(40.dp)` and `Text(..., maxLines = 1)`. When button labels vary in length, use `Modifier.weight(...)` so the middle/longer label has more space (e.g. `weight(1.4f)` for "Mark Reviewed") and side buttons use `weight(1f)` to avoid wrapping.
- **Video players:** Use a **16:9** aspect-ratio container (`Modifier.aspectRatio(16f / 9f)`), **RESIZE_MODE_ZOOM** so the frame is filled, and a **1-second (1000ms)** controller timeout (`controllerShowTimeoutMs = 1000`).
- **Push notifications:** Security-alert notification content follows the same title/body hierarchy as in-app UI: concise title (e.g. "Motion Detected", "Snapshot ready", or AI title) and body text. The notification shade uses `NotificationCompat` setContentTitle/setContentText (and BigPictureStyle where applicable); no Compose typography in the shade. See `FrigateFirebaseMessagingService` and `map.md` §5 (FCM phase-aware notifications).

---

## 1. Navigation flowchart

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    appLaunch["App launch"]
    navHost["NavHost startDestination=settings"]
    hasBaseUrl{"DataStore has base URL?"}
    settingsScreen["SettingsScreen"]
    mainTabs["MainTabsScreen (pager)"]
    dashboard["DashboardScreen"]
    events["EventsScreen"]
    dailyReview["DailyReviewScreen"]
    eventDetail["EventDetailScreen"]
    bottomBar["Bottom bar visible"]

    appLaunch --> navHost
    navHost --> settingsScreen
    settingsScreen --> hasBaseUrl
    hasBaseUrl -->|Yes| mainTabs
    hasBaseUrl -->|No| settingsScreen
    settingsScreen -->|Save base URL| mainTabs
    mainTabs --> bottomBar
    bottomBar -->|Dashboard tab or swipe| dashboard
    bottomBar -->|Events tab or swipe| events
    bottomBar -->|Daily Review tab or swipe| dailyReview
    events -->|Tap event| eventDetail
    eventDetail -->|Back| events
    deeplink["buffer://event_detail/ce_id"] --> mainTabs
    deeplink -->|Resolve to event| eventDetail
    deeplink -->|Not found| eventNotFound["EventNotFoundScreen"]
    notificationTap["Notification tap (EXTRA_CE_ID)"] --> mainTabs
    notificationTap -->|Same resolution as deep link| eventDetail
    notificationTap -->|Not found| eventNotFound
    eventNotFound -->|Refresh| eventDetail
    eventNotFound -->|Back| mainTabs
    dashboard -->|Snooze icon| snooze["SnoozeScreen"]
    snooze -->|Back| mainTabs
```

**Flow summary:**

- **App launch:** NavHost starts at route `"settings"`.
- **Launch decision:** A `LaunchedEffect(Unit)` in MainActivity calls `SettingsPreferences.getBaseUrlOnce()`. If non-null, navigates to `"main_tabs"` (MainTabsScreen) and pops `"settings"` so back does not return to first-run.
- **First run:** User stays on SettingsScreen until they enter a URL and tap Save (or launch decision already sent them to the tabbed main screen).
- **After Save:** `onNavigateToDashboard` runs → navigate to `"main_tabs"`, pop `"settings"` inclusive.
- **Bottom bar + pager:** MainTabsScreen owns a `Scaffold` with a bottom bar and a `HorizontalPager` with three pages: Dashboard, Events, and Daily Review. Tapping Dashboard, Events, or Daily Review animates the pager to the corresponding page; swiping between pages also updates the selected bottom bar item.
- **Event detail:** From EventsScreen (inside the pager), tapping an event card sets `SharedEventViewModel.selectedEvent` and navigates to `"event_detail"`. EventDetailScreen shows video (or snapshot placeholder when no clip is ready yet), actions (Mark Reviewed, Keep, Delete), and metadata. Back (toolbar or system) clears selection and pops to the previous screen.
- **Deep link:** The app can be opened via `buffer://event_detail/{ce_id}` or by tapping a push notification (body or "Play" action). In both cases MainActivity resolves a pending ce_id (from URI or intent extra `EXTRA_CE_ID`), fetches events (GET /events?filter=all), finds the event by `event_id` or (camera `"events"` and `subdir`), sets the selected event and navigates to `"event_detail"`. If the event is not found, the app navigates to `event_not_found/{ce_id}` which shows "Event not found" and a **Refresh** button that retries the same resolution.
- **Snooze:** From the Dashboard tab, the header shows a Snooze icon that navigates to `"snooze"`. SnoozeScreen lets the user set per-camera snooze with duration presets (30m, 1h, 2h), Notification Snooze and AI Snooze toggles, and a camera list with Snooze/Clear actions. Back returns to main tabs.

---

## 2. Screen inventory

### SettingsScreen

- **Route:** `"settings"`
- **Purpose:** First-run / onboarding; also reachable from main tabs via the header settings icon. User enters the Frigate Event Buffer server base URL, can test connection (GET `/status`), and saves. After save (when coming from first-run), app navigates to dashboard and removes settings from back stack. When opened from main tabs, a TopAppBar with back icon is shown and back (or full-width swipe) returns to main tabs.
- **ViewModel:** `SettingsViewModel` (factory: `SettingsViewModelFactory`).
- **States:**
  - `urlInput: StateFlow<String>` — current text in the URL field.
  - `connectionTestState: StateFlow<ConnectionTestState>` — `Idle` | `Loading` | `Success` | `Error(message)`.
- **Data source:** `FrigateApiService.getStatus()` for "Test connection". DataStore for `saveBaseUrl` / `getBaseUrlOnce`.

---

### DashboardScreen

- **Route:** Hosted as page 0 inside `"main_tabs"` (MainTabsScreen pager)
- **Purpose:** Shows event stats (today, this week, this month, unreviewed) and storage usage. Pull-to-refresh and retry on error. Data refreshes when the tab is selected and when the app is opened or brought from background.
- **ViewModel:** `DashboardViewModel` (factory: `DashboardViewModelFactory`).
- **States:** `DashboardState` — `Loading(previous?)` | `Success(stats)` | `Error(message, previous?)`.
- **Data source:** `FrigateApiService.getStats()`.
- **Refresh triggers:** init, pull-to-refresh, tab selected (current page), app resume (lifecycle `RESUMED` when this tab is visible). **Header:** When this tab is visible, the main-tabs top bar shows a Snooze icon that navigates to the snooze route.

---

### EventsScreen

- **Route:** Hosted as page 1 inside `"main_tabs"` (MainTabsScreen pager)
- **Purpose:** Lists unreviewed events with thumbnails (snapshot or clip), camera name, timestamp, label, and threat level. Pull-to-refresh, retry on error. List refreshes when the user returns from event detail after Mark Reviewed / Keep / Delete, when the tab is selected, and when the app is opened or brought from background.
- **ViewModel:** `EventsViewModel` (factory: `EventsViewModelFactory`; requires `SharedEventViewModel` to observe `eventsRefreshRequested`).
- **States:** `EventsState` — `Loading` | `Success(response)` | `Error(message)`. Also exposes `baseUrl: StateFlow<String?>` for building media URLs.
- **Data source:** `FrigateApiService.getEvents(filter = "unreviewed")`.
- **Refresh triggers:** init, pull-to-refresh, `SharedEventViewModel.eventsRefreshRequested` (after event-detail actions), tab selected, app resume.

---

### DailyReviewScreen

- **Route:** Hosted as page 2 inside `"main_tabs"` (MainTabsScreen pager)
- **Purpose:** View the current daily review report (Markdown) and trigger report generation. Pull-to-refresh to refetch without regenerating. Renders markdown via mikepenz M3; FAB "Generate New Report" calls generate endpoint then refetches. On 404 (no report for today) shows a friendly message and Retry. Data refreshes when the tab is selected and when the app is opened or brought from background.
- **ViewModel:** `DailyReviewViewModel` (factory: `DailyReviewViewModelFactory`). Receives viewModel from MainTabsScreen (same instance for the pager).
- **States:** `DailyReviewState` — `Idle` | `Loading` | `Success(markdownText)` | `Error(message)`.
- **Data source:** `FrigateApiService.getCurrentDailyReview()`, `FrigateApiService.generateDailyReview()`.
- **Refresh triggers:** init, pull-to-refresh (`refresh()`), after Generate New Report, tab selected, app resume.

---

### EventDetailScreen

- **Route:** `"event_detail"`
- **Purpose:** Plays the event's .mp4 clip (Media3 ExoPlayer), or shows the same snapshot as the events tab (hosted_snapshot / hosted_clip) as a placeholder when no clip is available yet. Shows actions (Mark Reviewed, Keep, Delete), and metadata (title, scene, camera, date, threat level). User can mark viewed, keep (move to saved), or delete; on Keep or Delete success the screen pops back (path changes / item removed). On any of the three actions, `onEventActionCompleted` is invoked so the events list refreshes (via `SharedEventViewModel.requestEventsRefresh()`). Selection comes from `SharedEventViewModel`; cleared on back.
- **ViewModel:** `EventDetailViewModel` (factory: `EventDetailViewModelFactory`). Also reads `SharedEventViewModel.selectedEvent` (from MainActivity).
- **States:** `EventDetailOperationState` — `Idle` | `Loading` | `Success(action)` | `Error(message)`. `baseUrl: StateFlow<String?>` for building clip and placeholder URLs.
- **Data source:** `FrigateApiService.markViewed`, `keepEvent`, `deleteEvent`. Clip URL via `buildMediaUrl(baseUrl, hosted_clip)` or first `hosted_clips[].url`; when no clip, placeholder image from `buildMediaUrl(baseUrl, hosted_snapshot)` or `hosted_clip` (same as events tab).

---

### EventNotFoundScreen

- **Route:** `"event_not_found/{ce_id}"` (path argument: `ce_id`).
- **Purpose:** Shown when a deep link `buffer://event_detail/{ce_id}` could not resolve to an event (e.g. event not in list or not yet synced). Displays "Event not found" and the ce_id, with a **Refresh** button that retries resolution (fetch events, find by ce_id; if found, navigate to event_detail) and a **Back to app** button that clears the pending deep link and pops back to main tabs.
- **ViewModel:** None; receives `ceId` from route, `onRefresh` and `onBack` from MainActivity.
- **Data source:** None; actions trigger MainActivity/DeepLinkViewModel retry or back.

---

### SnoozeScreen

- **Route:** `"snooze"`
- **Purpose:** Per-camera snooze to mute notifications or AI processing until an expiration time. User selects duration preset (30m, 1h, 2h) with haptic feedback on selection, toggles "Notification Snooze" and "AI Snooze" (with sub-label "Mutes AI analysis but keeps basic motion alerts" for AI). Camera list shows each camera with Snooze or Clear button; active snoozes show expiration. Data loaded from GET /cameras and GET /api/snooze; set via POST /api/snooze/<camera>; clear via DELETE /api/snooze/<camera>. Reached from the Dashboard header Snooze icon.
- **ViewModel:** `SnoozeViewModel` (factory: `SnoozeViewModelFactory`).
- **States:** `SnoozeState` — `Loading` | `Ready(cameras, activeSnoozes)` | `Error(message)`. Also `selectedPresetIndex`, `snoozeNotifications`, `snoozeAi`, `selectedCamera`, `operationInProgress`.
- **Data source:** `FrigateApiService.getCameras()`, `getSnoozeList()`, `setSnooze(camera, body)`, `clearSnooze(camera)`.

---

## 3. UI components and helpers

### SwipeBackBox

- **Location:** `com.example.frigateeventviewer.ui.util.SwipeBack.kt`
- **Purpose:** Full-width swipe-right-to-go-back on nested screens (Settings, Event detail). A rightward swipe from anywhere triggers back, like swiping between tabs. Only consumes the gesture when horizontal movement exceeds the threshold and dominates vertical movement, so vertical scroll continues to work.
- **Used by:** SettingsScreen, EventDetailScreen, SnoozeScreen.

### buildMediaUrl(baseUrl, path)

- **Location:** `com.example.frigateeventviewer.ui.util.MediaUrl.kt`
- **Purpose:** Builds the full media URL from the server base URL and an API path (e.g. `hosted_snapshot`, `hosted_clip`). Trims trailing slash from base URL to avoid double slashes. Returns `null` if either argument is null/blank.
- **Used by:** EventsScreen `EventCard` for thumbnail/clip URLs; EventDetailScreen for clip playback URL and snapshot placeholder URL.

### EventDetailScreen — video and actions

- **Video / placeholder:** When a clip is available, AndroidView wraps Media3 `PlayerView` and `ExoPlayer`; clip URL from `buildMediaUrl(baseUrl, event.hosted_clip)` or first `event.hosted_clips[].url`. When no clip is available yet, the same snapshot as the events tab is shown as a placeholder (`hosted_snapshot` or `hosted_clip` via `buildMediaUrl`). Player is paused on lifecycle `ON_PAUSE` and released in AndroidView `onRelease`.
- **Actions:** Row of three buttons — Mark Reviewed (primary), Keep (tertiary; disabled if `event.saved`), Delete (error). Success(Delete) or Success(Keep) calls `onEventActionCompleted()` then pops back; Success(Mark Reviewed) calls `onEventActionCompleted()` (so the events list refreshes in the background), shows Snackbar, and stays.

### Coil and video thumbnails

- **Application:** `FrigateEventViewerApplication` implements Coil `ImageLoaderFactory` and registers `VideoFrameDecoder.Factory()` so video URLs (e.g. .mp4 clip paths) can be used as image sources (first frame decoded).
- **Usage:** Use the default Coil `ImageLoader` (do not create ad-hoc loaders). For video URLs, build an `ImageRequest` with `videoFrameMillis(2000L)` (or desired offset) so Coil uses the decoder to show a frame. Example: EventsScreen `EventCard` uses `AsyncImage` with `ImageRequest.Builder(context).data(url).videoFrameMillis(2000L).build()`.
- There is no separate "StreamingVideoFetcher" component; the app uses Coil’s `VideoFrameDecoder` as above.
